sources 
https://www.theoi.com/Titan/Kirke.html
https://www.britannica.com/topic/Circe-Greek-mythology
https://greekreporter.com/2022/03/13/circe-witch-greek-mythology/
https://www.ancient-origins.net/myths-legends-europe/spellbinding-story-circe-goddess-magic-006787
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/338985302_The_WitchES_of_Aiaia_Gender_Immortality_and_the_Chronotope_in_Madeline_Miller's_Circe

images 
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/d/d9/Circe_Offering_the_Cup_to_Odysseus.jpg

Circe.

“A witch,” I said. “With unbound power. Who need answer to none but herself? ”

KIRKE (Circe) was a goddess of sorcery (pharmakeia) who was skilled in the magic
 of transmutation, illusion, and necromancy. She lived on the mythical island of
 Aiaia (Aeaea) with her nymph companions. Circe is the  daughter of Helios, the sun god, 
 and of the ocean nymph Perse. She was able by means of drugs and incantations to change
 humans into wolves, lions, and swine.
 
  Since the beginning of humanity, people have searched for solutions through magical practices and witchcraft.
 Therefore, Circe (or Kirke) became one of the most magnetic women in ancient Greece. A patron for witches, the personality
 and attributes of Circe in Greek mythology encompass all of the key ideas related to witchcraft. The goddess Circe has been remembered 
 for her vast knowledge of magic potions. As a specialist in herbs and knowledge of how to use them for magic and healing, Greek
 mythology had it that she created many recipes for ancient potions to use in magic rituals. To that end, Circe is often depicted with
 a wand or a staff in artworks.
 
 
 Ethimology.
 
 While the meaning of Circe is uncertain, the name possibly means "hoop round" or "hawk".
 
 Genealogy
 
 In most texts, the mythological Circe is described as the daughter of  Helios, the Titan of the Sun, and Perse the Oceanid.
 In Greek mythology, Circe is described as having several siblings, including Pasiphae, remembered for having married King Minos 
 and giving birth to the famous  Minotaur. Aeetes, known as the keeper of the Golden Fleece, was said to be her brother. However, 
 some ancient texts suggest that she was actually the powerful goddess  Hecate’s daughter instead.
 
 
The Circe of Greek Mythology in Modern Times

In Women and Other Monsters , Jess Zimmerman argues that within ancient literature women who lived outside of whatever was deemed normal
or feminine, were portrayed as monstrous, their traits amplified within Greek mythology.

For Zimmerman, the often-female monsters of Greek mythology, written by male authors of their era, can tell us a lot about cultural e
xpectations and represent “the bedtime stories patriarchy tells itself.” She goes so far as to question their monstrousness, asking the 
reader to see their traits as strengths.


 Circe by Madelline Mieller
 
 Madeline Miller’s Circe is a fictional autobiography of the sorceress goddess Circe, whose encounter with Odysseus lies at the heart of the
 Odyssey. Miller, a classicist, draws upon the well-known episode of the Odyssey where Circe converts Odysseus’ men into pigs, becomes his lover
 for a year and, when Odysseus eventually decides to continue on his quest for Ithaca, directs him  to the Underworld, where he can obtain 
 further advice (Homer 2016:125-138). However, many of the episodes  in the novel derive from other classical sources,  including Ovid’s 
 Metamorphoses, Apollonius of Rhodes, and the lost epic Telegony (Barenbaum 2018). Miller’s  novel, however,  differs from  all  of these 
 sources in  that  it attempts  to tell Circe’s story from her own perspective; in this it  resembles Margaret Atwood’s Circe: Mud Poems (1974)
 or  Eudora  Welty’s  1955  story Circe (Yarnall 1994:182-193). In this context, particularly in recent decades, “revisionist mythmakers” have
 frequently attempted to novelise Unauthentifiziert   | Heruntergeladen  02.02.20 12:25   UTC28 the myths and  epics of  the past  in order  
 to approach  them from  a new  and contemporary perspective.  For many of these authors, an important motivation has been the desire to give 
 a voice  to  female  characters,  who  were  often  relegated  to  the  margins  and  depicted  in stereotypical fashion in the original epics.
 In this context, Miller, too, emphasises that her  novel was born of her desire to ‘push back against Homer’ (Nicolau 2018) and to give Circe 
 a life, and voice, of her own:   I wanted her to be the center of the story. I wanted it to be an epic story about a woman’s life. And for her 
 to have  all the attention and all  the adventures and the growth,  the errors, the  virtues, that heroes  like Achilles and Odysseus have in their stories
 (Nicolau 2018).   In addition to gender, divinity is another important theme in Miller’s work. 
 
 Although she is a goddess, Circe is a minor and, at first, apparently powerless goddess, disparaged for her relatively unattractive looks and 
 thin, human voice. Moreover, the court of her father Helios is clearly a patriarchal one; while her brother Aeetes is allowed to participate in the
 affairs of court, Circe herself is excluded.  Instead, unmarried and apparently unmarriageable, eventually rejected as a lover by Glaucus after she 
 transforms him into a god, Circe seems destined to become a kind of immortal spinster aunt, at least until her transformation of Scylla and her consequent 
 exile on Aiaia.
 